YouTube’s Violative View Rate 
Methodology 
A Statistical Assessment 
Arnold Barnett 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
September 2021 
This evaluation was commissioned and funded by Google. The conclusions and opinions expressed are exclusively those 
of the author. 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
I. 
Introduction 
Hundreds of hours of content are uploaded to YouTube every minute.1 YouTube 
thrives by tapping into its ecosystem of creators, viewers, advertisers, but it considers some 
videos objectionable and wants them not to appear at its website. The company strives to 
limit the videos available to viewers to those that meet the standards for safety articulated 
in its “Community Guidelines.”2   
YouTube has developed specific rules about the types of content not permitted on its 
platform. These rules aim to exclude videos with unacceptable levels of violence, 
harassment, threats to children, and hate speech.3 The company has also developed 
automated methods which aim to detect videos that violate these policies so that they can 
be removed. According to its latest “Community Guidelines Enforcement Report,” YouTube 
removed nearly 9.6 million videos between January and March 2021.4  
YouTube has set up procedures continuously to monitor the presence of violative 
content on its platform. Although initially automated, these procedures send potentially 
violative videos for human evaluation. But this process takes time, and during that time users 
might be exposed to violative content. YouTube is very much interested in estimating the 
extent of such exposure of such content to improve further its detection systems. It estimates 
this frequency through a metric called the “Violative View Rate” (VVR). The VVR is the 
percentage of views of videos on the YouTube platform that violate its Community 
Guidelines.   
Google asked me to review and report on the sampling and statistical methodologies 
behind YouTube calculation of the VVR metric.5 To facilitate that review, YouTube provided 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
https://www.youtube.com/howyoutubeworks/policies/community-guidelines/#detecting-violations. 
https://www.youtube.com/howyoutubeworks/policies/community-guidelines/. 
https://www.youtube.com/howyoutubeworks/policies/community-guidelines/. 
Between January and March 2021, the latest period of report, YouTube removed 2.2 million “channels,” or 
collections of videos, which included more than 59 million individual videos; and another 9.6 million individual videos. 
https://transparencyreport.google.com/youtube-policy/removals.  
I have not evaluated certain aspects of YouTube’s VVR methodology, including the details of their machine learning
based classifier and the quality of the human rater reviews. I did not have access to YouTube’s underlying data, 
PAGE 1 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
me access to both publicly available external documents and internal documents describing 
the VVR approach. Statisticians, data scientists, and product managers at the company 
spoke with me about their modeling efforts and answered my questions. In pursuing my 
assignment, I considered the relationship between what YouTube does and what is possible 
using sophisticated and well-established statistical methods. I also performed some 
calculations that involved modifications of the YouTube methodology, to see whether any 
“tweaks” to YouTube’s methodology might yield a meaningful increase in accuracy.   
Based on my review, I conclude that YouTube’s methodology for estimating the VVR 
is thoroughly sensible and statistically sound. Moreover, its approach has several salutary 
features that aid its efforts to strengthen and enforce its Community Guidelines. In the 
remainder of this paper, I provide the basis for my conclusion.   
I begin the discussion in Section II with a brief “primer” on statistical sampling. Then 
in Section III, I outline YouTube’s approach to estimating the VVR. I discuss my main 
reactions to YouTube’s methodology in Section IV and, in Section V, offer a calculation about 
an alternative to the YouTube model. I offer a few final comments in Section VI. 
II. 
A Very Brief Overview of Statistical Sampling 
Through random sampling, one can use information about some members of the 
population to draw inferences about all of them. There is not one single way to conduct 
random sampling but instead there is a family of possibilities. When the aim of the sampling 
is to estimate a particular number (a parameter), it is generally desired that the estimate be 
unbiased, meaning that it is on average correct and not systematically too high or too low. 
Even if unbiased, however, the estimate could well differ from the actual parameter value 
because of the luck of the draw, in which case it suffers sampling error. The margin of error 
characterizes the level of imprecision in a given parameter estimate caused by random 
sampling fluctuations. 
code, or programs for selecting their samples and calculating the VVR metrics, although I did review extensive 
descriptions of their approach and calculations. 
PAGE 2 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
Simple Random Sampling 
In the simplest form of random sampling, all members of the population have the 
same chance of being selected into the random sample (not surprisingly, this method is 
called simple random sampling). Such sampling always yields unbiased parameter 
estimates. However, it can also yield a sizable margin of error in the parameter estimate.   
For example, suppose that a highly controversial policy is supported by 9.5% of the 
population (and opposed by the remaining 90.5%), and a poll is performed to estimate the 
support for the policy based on a simple random sample of 200 people. (These numbers are 
chosen to make the discussion easier to follow, and do not reflect real violation rates among 
YouTube views.  A forthcoming example will closely track actual VVR data.) The random 
poll will, on average, uncover 19 supporters out of 200 people canvassed and thus generate 
a correct estimate of 9.5%. However, it would not be unusual for the randomly-drawn sample 
to contain considerably more or fewer than 19 supporters. The margin of error in this setting 
would be 4.1 percentage points, meaning that there is about a 95% chance that the support 
estimate based on the sample will be within 4.1 percentage points of the correct value of 
9.5% (i.e., between 5.4% and 13.6%). Might a lower level of statistical uncertainty be 
possible at the same sample size? In some cases, the answer is yes. 
Suppose, for example, that the population in question is sharply polarized on the 
policy question, and breaks into two distinct groups in terms of support: 90% of the 
population is in group A where support is 5%, while the remaining 10% is in group B where 
support is 50%. A random sample of 200 people would on average contain about 20 from 
group B (10% of 200), but the actual number from that group could easily be 16 or 25. And 
the percentage of supporters in that small sample from B could well differ appreciably from 
50%. This is the main reason that the overall support estimate can oscillate around 9.5% by 
several percentage points. But, if the polarization is recognized at least in general terms, 
might that information point the way to an estimate that is unbiased but less vulnerable to 
sampling error? 
PAGE 3 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
Stratified Random Sampling  
A different sampling strategy might be beneficial here. If it correctly surmised that the 
main uncertainty about overall support for the policy relates to group B, then why not arrange 
that exactly 10% of the sample of 200 is allocated to group B (i.e., 20 from group B and 180 
from group A). That strategy would eliminate the component of sampling error that arises 
because, by the luck of the draw, group B might be overrepresented or underrepresented in 
the sample. Such a “proportional representation” scheme—which breaks the original 
population into two strata and takes separate random samples from each—is called  
proportional stratified random sampling. Once the sampling results are at hand, one would 
take a weighted average of the results for a population-wide estimate, with A getting nine 
times the weight of B because group A is nine times as large as group B. This stratified 
sampling would again be unbiased, yielding on average an overall support level of 9.5%. 
But it would cut the margin of error from 4.1 percentage points to 3.6, a reduction of about 
12%.  
However, this stratified scheme still estimates the support percentage within group B 
based on a sample size of only 20. That estimate is somewhat volatile: at a support level of 
50%, the number of supporters among 20 randomly-chosen members of group B would 
bounce around the mean of 10 the way the number of heads would vary around 10 over 20 
tosses of a fair coin. Suppose instead that one took a sample of size 40 from group B and 
160 from group A. Then the support percentage within group B would be estimated based 
on 40 individuals rather than 20, and thus would be less vulnerable to sampling error. Again, 
one would weight the group A results nine times as much as those from group B to estimate 
the population-wide support level.  
This more general form of stratified random sampling is again unbiased, and on 
average yields a support estimate of 9.5%. But the margin of error drops to 3.4 percentage 
points. Compared to simple random sampling at the same sample size, the margin of error 
has fallen 17% (i.e., from 4.1 to 3.4). And this reduction involves no increase in sampling 
effort, just some redirection of sampling resources towards the places where they can be 
maximally informative.  
PAGE 4 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
There is a further issue. If one is monitoring support for the policy over time, one might 
revise the sampling split between A and B if there is evidence of changes in one or both 
groups, perhaps based on results in the most recent poll. That would be an example of 
dynamic stratified sampling. Sampling theory offers approximations of the optimal division 
of sampling resources between two groups (or among several), based on existing estimates 
of parameter values within the groups. The aim remains to obtain an unbiased estimate of 
the population parameter with the least amount of sampling error. 
As we will discuss, YouTube performs a sophisticated form of dynamic stratified 
sampling to estimate the proportion of views of objectionable videos. YouTube’s approach 
is firmly rooted in reliable and fully developed statistical methodology. 
III. 
YouTube’s Calculation of the VVR 
As noted, YouTube’s goal is to estimate the fraction of views on its platform that 
violate its Community Guidelines (in statistical parlance, the population of interest is all 
YouTube views). A viewing arises when one person watches a video for any length of time. 
The emphasis on views accommodates the commonsensical notion that a violative video 
that is widely watched is more harmful than another such video that is rarely seen.   
Using a machine-learning classifier, YouTube has devised a score for each video tied 
to its characteristics that relates to the likelihood that the video is impermissible.6 While the 
score itself is not the probability that the video violates guidelines, it arises from the premise 
that, the higher the score, the greater the chance of a violation. The scores can vary from 0 
to 1. 
YouTube then moved to an exercise in stratified sampling, based on creating non 
overlapping ranges for the video scores. The aim was to devise a set of strata such that the 
probability of violation would not vary much within a given stratum but would vary appreciably 
6 
Based on my conversations with YouTube, I understand that YouTube has a number of classifiers, each with 
different goals. The one that it uses to generate the scores in its VVR methodologies is designed to cast a wide net 
in searching for violative videos. The details about how classifier scores are determined are outside the scope of 
this evaluation. However, I recommend that YouTube periodically evaluate whether revisions to its scoring rules for 
videos might yield lesser uncertainty in its estimates of the VVR. 
PAGE 5 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
across strata. YouTube decided that it would create five strata, namely, lowest risk, 2nd 
lowest, 2nd highest, highest, and “no score available.”7 Random sampling would then take 
place among the views in each stratum, meaning that a given video’s probability of selection 
would be proportional to the number of people who viewed it. Each sampled video would be 
evaluated by a trained person for its adherence to the Community Guidelines. Ultimately, 
the VVRs calculated from the five strata would be combined for an estimate of the overall 
VVR.   
Given the decision to create five strata among videos that received scores, two 
questions arise: 
● How should the range from 0 to 1 be divided into four distinct strata? For example, 
the lowest-risk stratum would include scores from 0 to X, but what is X? 
● Given a total sample size for the number of views from the five strata, what size 
sample should be drawn from each? 
A full answer to these questions would require much immersion into statistical 
sampling theory.8 In general terms, one might start with an “educated guess” of how the 
probability of violation varies with score, and then use that approximation and a computer to 
create four score ranges plus a “no score” stratum coupled with five sample sizes. The 
ranges and sample sizes chosen would be those that yield the lowest overall margin of 
sampling error in the VVR estimate, given the initial guesses). As indicated in our statistical 
primer, strata in which the expected VVR is especially low would receive a lesser share of 
the sampling than their share of the population (e.g., 30% of the population might get 20% 
of the amount of sampling). This makes sense because even small sample sizes are highly 
accurate when the VVR is very low. (indeed, if there were a stratum with a VVR of zero, 
even a sample of size one would correctly reflect that VVR). Instead, sampling resources 
7 
8 
I understand that videos for which the classifier did not return a score are, for example, videos uploaded very close 
to the time that sampling was done.  
A good place to begin that immersion would be the classic book Sampling Techniques by Cochran (Wiley, 1997), 
especially Chapter 5. 
PAGE 6 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
gravitate towards strata with higher VVRs as long as the VVR is less than 50% (which, 
fortunately, does not remotely happen). 
Once the initial scheme based on educated guesses is in place, actual VVRs would 
be estimated for the various strata. Those numbers could then be used to reallocate future 
sampling resources to the strata where they would do the most to reduce sampling error.9 
Less emphasis would be placed on changing the boundaries among the four strata for 
scored videos.  
The investigation with sampled views takes place daily at YouTube. In accordance 
with the principles of dynamic stratified sampling, the sample sizes in the five ranges are 
revised each day based on actual VVR rates in those ranges over the 90 preceding days. 
Such revisions could be important should there (say) be an increase in violative videos over 
time in low-score ranges. Even if the initial scoring rules became less predictive over time, 
the dynamic sampling procedure would be expected to blunt or even prevent any increases 
in overall sampling error.  
I would suggest, however, that YouTube consider whether using VVRs averaged over 
the past 90 days is preferable to doing so for (say) the past 30 days. In situations in which 
VVR’s are changing rapidly, a 90-day average might not be especially illuminating about 
what is happening now. Indeed, YouTube might do well routinely to calculate the VVR 
averages for recent periods of varying length: if they are all similar, that would indicate that 
the VVR is stable over time. 
YouTube recently released to the public its estimates of the VVR for recent calendar 
quarters. Table 1 presents estimates of several recent quarterly VVRs, coupled with the 
margins of error for those estimates. The quarterly VVR is an average of 9 daily VVR 
estimates, weighted by the number of views on the platform each day (which can vary).10 
9  
10  
Indeed, it is theoretically possible that the observed violative rate would be higher in the “low risk” strata than in the 
“higher risk” ones. In that event, future sampling would tilt towards the allegedly low-risk strata and the descriptions 
of the strata would be changed. It is important to recognize that, under YouTube’s sampling approach, any initial 
misconceptions about risk as a function of video characteristics would not cause increased sampling error in future 
sampling. That is a strength of YouTube’s approach. 
If the number of views of videos on the YouTube platform were the same each day, the quarterly VVR would be a 
simple average of the daily VVRs. 
PAGE 7 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
As shown in Table 1, the VVR rates have been stable over the last five quarters, while the 
margins of error for the quarterly estimates have been only a small fraction of the estimates 
themselves (only 0.01 percentage points, which is about 1/18 of the estimate in the last two 
quarters). These results make clear that there is very little uncertainty around the estimated 
level of policy violations on YouTube. That outcome is prima facie evidence that YouTube’s 
sampling methods are highly successful. 
Table 1. YouTube’s VVR by Quarter, Q1 2020 - Q1 2021 
Calendar Quarter 
Q1 2020  
Q2 2020  
Q3 2020  
Q4 2020  
Q1 2021  
Estimated VVR  
0.19%  
0.20%  
0.17%  
0.18%  
0.18%  
Source: https://transparencyreport.google.com/youtube-policy/views 
IV. 
Margin of Error 
(at 95% Confidence Level) 
± 0.015 percentage points 
± 0.015 percentage points 
± 0.010 percentage points 
± 0.010 percentage points 
± 0.010 percentage points 
General Assessment of YouTube’s Approach to Estimating VVR 
For several reasons, I see much merit in what YouTube is doing to reach an accurate 
VVR estimate. First and foremost, YouTube’s analysts explored the statistical literature and 
recognized that the estimation problem they faced could fruitfully be handled by a powerful 
existing methodology, namely, dynamic stratified sampling. All too often, analysts try to 
reinvent the wheel and wind up with something that is anything but round. That did not 
happen at YouTube. 
Moreover, YouTube realized that getting reliable results about VVR would require 
large sample sizes. Because violative videos are rare, even a stratified sampling effort 
PAGE 8 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
targeted towards videos with high scores would yield noisy results at the moderate sample 
sizes that would suffice in other contexts. Despite the need for human involvement, YouTube 
samples thousands of video views per day, which works out to hundreds of thousands of 
sampled views per quarter. Given such sample sizes and an adaptive methodology, 
YouTube can pick up on changes over time in both overall violation rates and in the kinds of 
videos where violations are increasing or decreasing.  
Having human reviewers for sampled videos is an excellent idea. Evaluating videos 
for objectionable content cannot easily be automated, especially with “adversarial actors” 
working to evade any predictable guidelines produced by algorithms. Furthermore, YouTube 
goes to great lengths to prevent inconsistent or unreliable assessments by its reviewers, 
which include: 
● Allowing raters to consult more experienced colleagues and quality assurance staff 
for assistance when they are unsure of the proper decision; 
● Waiting 14 days after the close of a given quarter to incorporate the human 
evaluation into the calculation of the VVR metric (a process YouTube calls 
“windowing”), which also allows time for errors to be corrected before being 
included in calculations. 
● Encouraging raters to seek help from specific language experts to assist with videos 
in a particular language; and 
● Providing feedback to raters based on ongoing testing, audits, and evaluation of 
raters’ decisions 
Because of these activities, it is unlikely that either of the two kinds of potential errors – violative videos are being classified as acceptable or acceptable videos being classified 
as violative – are common. But I believe YouTube would do well monitor the process 
regularly, to be sure that its reliability does not diminish over time.  
YouTube is well aware that VVR measures the size of a problem rather than cures 
the problem. The sampling exercise cannot identify which particular views outside the 
sample are violative; it can simply indicate approximately how many such views there are 
and whether that number is diminishing over time. That information, however, is highly 
valuable in its own right. 
PAGE 9 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
In one respect, I thought it worthwhile to investigate an assumption in the VVR 
analysis. YouTube’s analysts have divided views of videos with scores into four strata (with 
an additional stratum for views of videos for which the classifier did not provide a score), 
believing that working with a larger number of strata would only minimally reduce sampling 
error. Though I considered that conclusion plausible and consistent with sampling theory, I 
thought it should be subject to an empirical test. Such a test is discussed in the next section.  
V. 
A Test of YouTube’s Stratification Methodology 
To assess whether five strata might be too few, I worked with a hypothetical 
population of views that is similar to the one YouTube actually faces. The question was 
whether using additional strata would appreciably reduce the level of sampling error in the 
VVR estimate. As shown in Table 2A, the actual fraction of violative views in our hypothetical 
population is 0.2%, but the rate varies somewhat across the score ranges. Most views are 
in the “lowest risk” category, and the VVR increases steadily as the category becomes 
riskier. 
Consistent with YouTube’s actual approach, I used a total sample of 4,000 random 
views for a hypothetical day,11 and I followed YouTube’s method for allocating the sampling 
across the five strata. The results appear in Table 2B. Note that the lowest risk stratum 
contains 80% of all views, but gets only about half the sampled views, while the very small 
highest-risk stratum gets a disproportionate share of those views. The outcomes in the 
individual strata will all be subject to sampling error, the level of which depends on both their 
sample sizes and their actual VVRs. As noted at the bottom of the table, the overall VVR 
estimate is on average correct at 0.2%, with a standard deviation of 0.054 percentage points  
11  
A sample of 4,000 views a day means that YouTube samples nearly 1.5 million views each year. This is a substantial 
sample size. 
PAGE 10 
  
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
PAGE 11 
Table 2A: Characteristics of a Hypothetical Population of Views Broken into Five Strata 
 Share of Population  Violative Viewing Rate 
Lowest Risk 80%  0.05% 
Low Risk 10%  0.50% 
Middle Risk 5%  1.0% 
High Risk 1%  5.0% 
No score available  4%   0.25% 
Total 100%  0.20% 
 
Table 2B. YouTube’s Sampling Allocations Across the Five Strata 
 
Share of Population 
 YouTube Optimal   
Sample Sizes 
 %  # % 
Lowest Risk 80%  2,098 52.5% 
Low Risk 10%  828 20.7% 
Middle Risk 5%  584 14.6% 
High Risk 1%  256 6.4% 
No score available 4%  234 5.9% 
Total 100%  4,000 100% 
      
Expected Estimate of VVR  0.20% 
Expected Standard Deviation  0.054 percentage points 
 
 But suppose that the population of views with known scores had been broken into 
eight strata rather than four. For example, suppose the lowest risk stratum with an average 
VVR of 0.05% was divided into two halves, with an average VVR of 0.025% in the new 
“lowest lowest risk” stratum and of 0.075% in the other half (see Table 3A). Again, using a 
daily sample size of 4,000, the YouTube approach yields the allocations across strata shown 
in Table 3B. In each former category, a greater sample size is assigned to the higher-risk 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
sub-stratum than to the lower-risk one. This improved “targeting” would tend to reduce 
sampling error. But by how much? 
As shown, the sampling will again on average yield an estimated VVR of 0.20%, while 
the expected standard deviation drops to 0.052 percentage points. But that decline is only 
4% of the expected standard deviation based on five strata (0.054 percentage points). I view 
this outcome as supportive of YouTube’s judgment that five strata offer sufficient accuracy. 
One can always reduce sampling error by increasing the number of strata: further dividing 
this population into sixteen strata would cut the expected standard deviation even more. But 
the analysis gets more unwieldy as strata proliferate, so it makes sense to limit their number. 
In my judgment, YouTube has done so sensibly.  
PAGE 12 
  
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
PAGE 13 
Table 3A. Characteristics of the Hypothetical Population of Views  
Broken into Nine Strata 
 Share of Population   Violative View Rate 
Lowest Risk (Part 1) 40.0%  0.025% 
Lowest Risk (Part 2) 40.0%  0.075% 
Low Risk (Part 1) 5.0%  0.30% 
Low Risk (Part 2) 5.0%  0.70% 
Middle Risk (Part 1) 2.5%  0.95% 
Middle Risk (Part 2) 2.5%  1.05% 
High Risk (Part 1) 0.5%   3.04% 
High Risk (Part 2) 0.5%  6.96% 
No score available 4.0%  0.25% 
Total 100%  0.20% 
Table 3B. YouTube’s Sampling Allocation Across the Nine Strata 
 
Share of Population 
 YouTube Optimal  
Sample Size 
  # % 
Lowest Risk (Part 1) 40.0%  760 19.0% 
Lowest Risk (Part 2) 40.0%  1,316 32.9% 
Low Risk (Part 1) 5.0%  329 8.2% 
Low Risk (Part 2) 5.0%  501 12.5% 
Middle Risk (Part 1) 2.5%  291 7.3% 
Middle Risk (Part 2) 2.5%  307 7.7% 
High Risk (Part 1) 0.5%  103 2.6% 
High Risk (Part 2) 0.5%  153 3.8% 
No score available 4.0%  240 6.0% 
Total 100%  4,000 100% 
      
Expected Estimate of VVR  0.20% 
Expected Standard Error  0.052 percentage points 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
I also considered whether, assuming five strata, one might achieve a lower expected 
standard deviation with different boundaries between strata. For example, what if the lowest 
risk category contained 70% of all views rather than 80%? To put it briefly, I obtained no 
improvement over the boundaries that YouTube would have set. In all, I saw no way to 
modify YouTube’s sampling procedure that would improve on its combination of accuracy 
and transparency.   
VI. 
Conclusion 
As Table 1 shows, only about one ten-thousandth of YouTube views violate its 
Community Guidelines. But that estimate is highly accurate because YouTube does 
extensive sampling on a daily basis, and does so using a highly sophisticated methodology 
that combines careful human evaluation with advanced statistical theory. I wholeheartedly 
endorse what YouTube is doing.  
As noted, knowing that the VVR is about .01% does not reveal which particular views 
outside the sample violate guidelines. One cannot eliminate violative views without 
immediately examining every single one. But the VVR offers a realistic estimate of the 
magnitude of the problem and how that magnitude might be changing over time. And that 
knowledge is of great value to both YouTube and the huge community served by YouTube. 
PAGE 14 
YouTube’s VVR Methodology: A Statistical Assessment 
About the author 
Arnold Barnett is the George Eastman Professor of Management Science and Professor 
of Statistics, MIT Sloan School of Management. Professor Barnett is an expert in applied 
statistics and mathematical modeling. He has written numerous articles and chapters on a 
broad range of topics, including statistical analysis, new directions for statistics and 
computing, and statistical misconceptions in empirical studies. He is the author of the 
textbooks Applied Probability and Applied Statistics, and his papers have been published in 
peer-reviewed journals such as the Journal of the American Statistical Association, 
Operations Research, and Risk Analysis. 
Professor Barnett’s early work on homicide was presented to President Ford at the White 
House, and his analysis of U.S. casualties in Vietnam was the subject of a column by William 
F. Buckley. He has received the President’s Award and the Expository Writing Award from 
The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) and the 
President’s Citation from the Flight Safety Foundation for “truly outstanding contributions on 
behalf of safety.” He has written op-ed pieces for The New York Times, The Wall Street 
Journal, The Boston Globe, and USA Today. He has been honored frequently for 
outstanding teaching by students at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and he was 
described as the school’s “best” faculty member by BusinessWeek.  
Professor Barnett holds a B.A. in physics from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in 
Mathematics from MIT. 
PAGE 15 